after an attempt to stop global warming
via climate engineering catastrophically
backfires
creating a new ice age in 2014 the
remnants of humanity have taken to a
circumnavigational train
the snowpiercer run by reclusive
transportation magnate wilford
the passengers on the train are
segregated with the elite in the
extravagant front cars and the poor in
squalid tail compartments controlled by
armed guards
urged by his father figure gilliam
curtis and his second-in-command edgar
lead the tail passengers in a revolt
after they realize the guard's weapons
have no ammunition
they free numgoong a captive security
specialist
who insists that his clairvoyant
daughter yona is freed as well
nimgoong helps the tail army progress
forward but they soon end up in a
standoff with guards with axes
overseen by minister mason in the
ensuing fight
curtis has to choose between saving
edgar or capturing mason
curtis makes a difficult call to capture
mason in order to use her as a
bargaining chip to end the battle
and edgar is fatally stabbed the tail
army stays back
holding the guards captive while curtis
takes mason
nemgoon yonah skilled fighter gray and
tonya
and andrew two parents who have had
their children taken from them
toward the front of the train they are
unaware that franco
loyal to mason escapes the tail army to
rally more guards
pittas's group travels through the first
of several opulent cars
namgung and yona recognize a landmark
outside and consider that the ice may be
thawing
they eventually reach a school room
where a teacher is indoctrinating the
children on wilford's greatness
just before they open eggs to celebrate
the 18th new year
each of which has marked one
circumnavigation of the earth
the teacher uses this as a distraction
to attack and kill andrew before gray
kills her
in the tail section franco uses the
distraction to kill the tail army and
capture gilliam
franco sends a live feed to the
television in the classroom as he
executes gilliam
curtis in return kills mason
curtis's group moves on but franco soon
catches up to them
tanya and gray are killed after fighting
franco who is then seemingly killed by
curtis and nemgoong
the two along with yonah continue onward
they reach the last car before the
engine nimgoong reveals he and yona had
been collecting chronol
an addictive drug but also a potent
explosive which he wants to use to blow
the door to the outside
believing they can survive curtis stops
them
as he wants to meet wilford curtis
explains that in the early days of the
train
17 years before the tail section had
resorted to cannibalism
and he had been nearly ready to eat the
infant edgar but gilliam offered him his
arm instead
curtis wants to face wilford to ask why
he created this closed ecosystem
just then the engine door opens and
wilford's assistant claude emerges and
wounds namgoong before inviting curtis
inside
curtis meets wilford and to his shock
learns he and gilliam conspired to stage
kudis's rebellion to reduce the train's
population to sustainable levels
wilford orders 74 of the tail passengers
killed
he then offers curtis his position
leading the train
curtis appears ready to accept when yona
overpowers claude
rushes in and pulls open a floorboard to
reveal children from the tail section
including andrew and tanya's children
andy and timmy
working the engine as slaves appalled
curtis knocks out wilford and rescues
timmy from the machinery
though he loses his arm in the process
curtis gives jonah matches to light the
fuse for the chronol
while nemgoon fights and kills franco
who had followed them
as the door to the engine room will not
close curtis and nemgung use their
bodies to protect yona and timmy from
the blast
the explosion causes an avalanche that
derails the train
shortly after yonah and timmy escaped
the wreckage
they see a polar bear in the distance
indicating that life exists outside the
train